What is more important, finishing an assignment, or how we go about carrying out the assignment?
Well, our text for today uses the Day of Atonement to illustrate that the way Jesus went about
living his life was actually even more important than that one act of salvation.
Now, why?
Well, that's because the way Jesus lived his life carried out his ministry,
addressed Satan's challenge.
And Jesus proved that doing things Jehovah's way is the right way to live.
Thus, Jesus by his life upheld Jehovah's sovereignty, and that made his sacrifice acceptable to Jehovah.
So what are some ways in which Jesus upheld or vindicated Jehovah's sovereignty?
And how can we imitate Jesus in our assignments?
Well, there's many things we could talk about today, but let's just consider three ways.
At one, is that Jesus worked on Jehovah's initiatives, not his own.
Now, as we know, Jesus could calm storms, he could heal people, he could feed people,
and so Jesus could have decided, well, yes, I'm going to preach, but I'm also going to focus
my energies on helping people, setting up relief activities, healing of the sick, helping the poor.
Or the people wanted to make Jesus king.
He could have decided, well, let me let them make, let me be king, and then I can address some
of the problems of the day. Or Jesus loved children, and people loved the way Jesus taught.
So Jesus could have thought, well, I'm going to preach, but I'm going to focus my energy on
setting up schools so that I can teach young people to learn about Jehovah.
See, Jesus could have done all of those things, but what did he do?
Well, let's look at Luke chapter four, in verse 43, and notice what it quotes him saying in
response to the crowds, wanting him to stay and help them. Luke chapter four, verse 43,
but he said to them, I must also declare the good news of the kingdom of God to other cities,
because for this I was sent. Jesus never lost sight of why he was there. What his assignment was,
he stayed focused, and he focused his energies on what Jehovah wanted done.
Well, how can we imitate Jesus in our assignments? Well, as we know, there are many things that we
could get involved in as an organization. Good things, expanding our relief activities,
helping the poor, teaching, setting up schools to teach other people, or many other initiatives.
And there's nothing wrong with us presenting a new idea or initiative to our oversight.
But what do we do once a decision is made? Well, we follow the direction we throw ourselves into
the initiatives given to us from our oversight. See, we subject ourselves to what Jehovah wants
his organization to do and how he wants it done. It's not about what we think the organization should
be doing. It's about what Jehovah wants done. Let's look at another example. Jesus worked within
the organizational structures that Jehovah had in place or allowed to be in place. Now, Jesus saw
the hypocrisy, the corruption, the inefficiencies of the Jewish arrangements that were there in place
at the time. Other arrangements, though not bad, had served their purpose, or were only temporary,
were soon to end. What would Jesus do? We remember the encounters recorded in Matthew chapter 8,
in verse 4, when he healed the man with leprosy. What did he tell the man to do? He says,
go show yourself to the priest. Now, Jesus knew the man was clean, but yet he told him, follow the
arrangement. In Galatians chapter 4, in verse 4, it says that Jesus was under law. We know that he
observed the Sabbath. Now, we know that Jehovah established the Sabbath as a temporary arrangement
to teach people, to take time to meditate on spiritual things. Well, Jesus understood the
principle behind the Sabbath. He meditated on spiritual things every day, and he knew it was soon
going to end, and yet he respected and followed the arrangement. It's interesting, regarding
the Pharisees, it records them saying in Matthew chapter 23 and verse 3, all they tell you do
and observe. He says, listen to the Pharisees, even though they weren't doing the right thing,
why? Because that was the arrangement. See, Jesus worked within the arrangement,
so Jehovah had in place or had not yet seen fit to change. So how can we imitate Jesus in our
assignments? Well, even within the organization, we may see functions, departments, processes
that, personally, we may perceive as inefficient or complicated or out of date. Well, Jehovah,
obviously, has allowed these structures to be in place or has not yet seen fit to change them.
So do we see how supporting them, working with them, not working around these arrangements,
is another way of us supporting Jehovah's right to rule his way? So again, another example,
the third, Jesus understood the limits of his authority. In Luke, excuse me, Matthew chapter 11
and verse 27, Jesus said, all things have been handed over to me by my father, all things.
And yet Jesus understood that his authority had boundaries. Remember the account in Luke chapter 12,
where the man in the crowd said to Jesus, he says, teacher, tell my brother to divide his
inheritance with me. What did Jesus do? Okay, well, let's talk about that. No. He says, man,
who appointed me judge or arbiter between you two? Wait a minute, I thought you had all authority.
Or when the Phoenician woman came to Jesus and asked him to heal her daughter, what did Jesus say?
He says, I was not sent to anyone except the law sheep of the house of Israel.
Now, even though Jesus did help her, we see his words illustrate that he understood that his
authority had limits. In fact, notice what he says is recorded in John chapter 5 and verse 19.
John 5, 19, therefore in response, Jesus said to them, most truly, I say to you, the son cannot do
a single thing of his own initiative, but only what he sees the father doing. For whatever things
that one does, these things the son does also in like manner. The son cannot do a single thing,
but he has all authority. So how can we imitate Jesus in our assignments? Well, I know for me,
the governing body provides a beautiful example of that. Periodically, we will get a call in our
department from a governing body member who may be as observed something regarding one of our branch
facilities or has a suggestion or a concern. And invariably, at the end of the call, the brother
will say, now, remember, this is just my opinion and observation. Please do not take this as direction.
The members of the publishing committee may have a different perspective. Isn't that beautiful?
Even the governing body members understand that their authority has boundaries. What a good
example for us to follow. As we know in the secular world, the more responsibility one has,
the more authority they have. But isn't it true that it's exactly the opposite within Jehovah's
Organization? The more responsibility we have, the more checks and balances there are,
that limit our authority. And to me, that is a beautiful arrangement that Jehovah has said in
place. And that ensures that it is impossible for one man to rise up and take control of the
earthly part of Jehovah's Organization. It's not possible. It is clear, Jehovah is taking the lead
through his son, Jesus. And see, the point is that when we understand our place in the arrangement,
we uphold Jehovah's authority and his right to rule his way. Now, we contrast all of that with
Satan, who promotes independence and doing his own things, sets up rival and competing organization
arrangements and has no idea of the limits of his authority. So really, it drives home the point in
Luke 9 and verse 23. Let's read that together. Luke 9 and verse 23, then he went on to say it all,
if anyone wants to come after me, let him disown himself and pick up his torture stake day after
day and keep following me. See, when we choose to follow Christ, when we chose to follow Jesus,
we said we are going to put our will in the background and we're going to submit to Jehovah's
will. So in summary, Jesus example shows us that it's not just finishing an assignment that's
important, but also how we go about doing that assignment. So the question for today is,
does the way I am accomplishing my assignments demonstrate that I support Jehovah's sovereignty?
So as we contemplate Jesus' death and ransom, may we also think about his example, even just
in these three ways we've discussed, and may we be resolved to imitate Jesus by one,
working on the things Jehovah wants done, using the arrangements that he has put in place
and within the limits of our own authority. And in this way, we too will demonstrate that we
believe that doing things Jehovah's way is the right way to live.